1)what is IAAS?
infrastructure as a service
infrastructure: a collection of hardware and software that need to enable the cloud.
they give the only infrastructure to us reaming all we have to maintain, virtualization, servers, storage, networking these things will be maintained by the servers 
eg:AWS,GCP,azure

2) what is PAAS?
a)platform as a service
in which the clients we should maintain the application and the data, remaining will be maintained by the Paas
eg:Google App Engine, aws elastic beanstalk

3)what is SAAS?
a) everything will be maintained by the cloud vendors, we have to just use it, its an independent platform 
eg:gmail in that everything is automatic we have to do the work what we need like the sending mails
  all google apps are examples

4)what is public?
a)it will be deployed by the third-party cloud providers, they will have all things like software/infrastructure/application so that they  can share to hundred or thousands of people
it can be used by anyone, pay as we go offers

5)what is private?
a)which can be seen by certain people, who have sensitive data, if they want to share to the particular amount of ppl, they use private

6)what is Hybride?
a)public+private
which provide the both services, becoz of this we can work accordly

7)what is a region?
a)every region has its unique code, its a city .in single region all az are inter connected

8)what is avaliablilty zone?
a)it's a continuous datacenter where the data can arrange in categories within some regions
An Availability Zone (AZ) is one or more discrete data centers with redundant power, networking, and connectivity in an AWS Region.
it  has its power infrastructure, the distance between each az is 100km
but by default, they are connected to each other


9)what is webserver?
a)its a software that runs on the  same computer, the webserver is to store, process and deliver web pages to the users,
intercommunication with HTTP
ex:tomcat, apache,smt,ftp,iis

10)different type of hostings?
a)shared hosting:rent for some time and host it, many ppl using one hosting
 
vps hosting:  virtual private servers its also similar to shared but there thre will be some capacity, they cant ealy distub the other webapp or something that runing using thsi hosting
dedicated hosting: its dedicate to their application to host

cloud hosting:its the most efficient and the popular servers instead of single physysical multiple connncetion is better, if one get doen we can use the others 
it can be high scalable

11) what is protocol?
a)when the client wants to conncet to the server they need some rules to communicate ammong them selfs
it gets the data and sends back to it via get method ,usiually they do with  http

12)what is datacenter?
a)purpose of collecting, storing, processing, distributing or allowing access to large amounts of data.


https://youtu.be/_pddKYARoPY
















